# Lego
description of the project
- description of the work process (what problems do you have and how
you solved them)
- explanation of the result values (how you got them)
- explanation why do you think this values are the best
- link to youtube video (not longer than 1 minute) that shows move-
ment of your robot

  Almost once for ever I decided to start for a few days before the deadline. That was bad idea. To watch serials is more profit than such time spending.
  First, I wanted to work with Java pack for ev3 because of the most familiar syntax for me and with Intellije Idea. I thought since this is such a popular IDE, then there must be fast and easy way to install plugins etc. I Found giudes (more than 1) how to install Lejos to the robot and about plugin for Eclipse. But I coutinued my search and some time after installed plugin for Idea. Here? I found that NXT is not compatible with ev3, so I need to start again to install appropriate Lejos version. When this process had been finished, I was glad to finally to write a code. Wrote some simple implementation just to check it works. It was not. I was seeking information about the problem and I found out it is about the Windows 10 driver for RNDIS/Ethernet devices. They are taken as a COM-port. After wasting a couple hours I finally found driver version that really allowed Windows to identify Ev3 as RNDIS device. But the problem did not desappiare. Because of all of this I плюнул на это все and decided to learn about ev3dev for python and about the python itself.
  Second, I installed 2 versions of eclipse (actually the same version but in different directories and with different plugin set) because the first one could not compile the code as ev3dev. The reason was in ev3 library that was not attached. After spending some time I finally started to search for description how to implement PID using programming language (thanks to Nikita for a notice that it is not necessary to totally connect eclipse with ev3dev and just connect to the robot via putty). Also there was a trouble with Bluetooth connection, but afterwards it was ehough just to reboot robot and let him to connect by itself, not a total reinstall ev3dev into thr robot, like I did. I counted for Phudocode, but I found total python3 implementation for ev3dev by Laurensvalk. Here I realized that the form of my robot is not workable (too soft flexible construction), so I needed to assemble the new one, more fixed than the elder one. It provided me with more stable behavior. I got the sourcecode, copied it in Eclipse and started to learn how it works. There is full implementation with remote control, calibrating, touch sensor. I excluded some parts from there and it was work perfectly.
  After this, I tried to implement my own code using the Internet Psudocode for PID controller (At this stage I realized that laurensvalk uses modified PID). I wanted to use only Gyro sensor. Tried a lot of approaches, different coeffitients for P, I, D. But I could not fix a mistake, where balance point was woming to one of the sizes. So that there was just a coouple of fluctuatios over all of these attemts.
  Finally, I decided to use the code that works even it is not mine, because spend more then 40 hours of clear work for a usual homework is to expensive for me. And also there was a psychological factor such as a fact that I passed 5 people during this time, who came, installed the pack and made line folower spending about 7 hours in average. Interesting is that this approach not uses Guro D controller at all, but uses Gyro PI in connection with Motor position PID. The point that I have not tried to implement. But since I have seen the solution, It is not possible for me to find anothe brilliant decision.
  
  My one project results are poor: I tried to increase values coefficients (Kp when these was no fluctuations, Ki when tried to increase fluctuation amplitude, and Kd to Decreade it). But for laurens I have tried several different coefficients and I concluded that Ki can be changed in interval btw 1300 to 1700 without serious difference if robot behavior. But with 1300 it looks more stable (more percent of staying at the same place over the experiments). Also Ki and Kd ccould be changed not more than 5 (for Ki = 120).
  So, I found that 1300, 120 for a Gyro P and I respectively and 7, 9, 3 (exactly that laurensvalk provided) for Motor P, I, D respectively also are the lead to the most stable system behavior.
  
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LR7WkkJX3NI
